# Automatic X-ray Report Generation using Deep Learning Models and Named Entity Recognition

Deep learning has found an important application area in healthcare due to its quick and effective development in research domains.

This project combines the power of computer vision(CV) and natural language processing(NLP). The goal is to generate  a text report that is as close to one generated by a radiologist as possible is generated, provided one or more medical photos of a patient as input.
We have used different state-of-art techniques for this task like CNN (InceptionV3, CheXNet ) and RNN(LSTM,GRU)   with the Attention Mechanism as the Attention model mainly focuses on the important image features/words thus improving the prediction of text report.


DATASET : The dataset used is publicly available on Indian University (IU) datasets.The original source of this data is Open-i service: National Library of Medicine (https://openi.nlm.nih.gov/faq). This dataset contain 7471 images, which are images of chest X - Ray (frontal, lateral), report of the corresponding image in XML file.

The repository has following folders:
1) DATA - The data folder has all the necessary pretrained model weights file , dependencies , curated data.
2) EDA - This folder has file showing Exploratory data Analysis on IU dataset. 
3) Model_1_GRU_with_Inception - This folder has the model which is trained on one image using Encoder-Inception v3 pre-trained model and Decoder-GRU with Attention   mechanism.
4) Model_2_GRU_with_CheXNet - This folder has the model which is trained on one image using Encoder-CheXNet pre-trained model and Decoder-GRU with Attention mechanism.
5) Model_3_LSTM_with_CheXNet -  This folder has the model which is trained on concatenated features of two image using Encoder-CheXNet pre-trained model and Decoder-LSTM with Attention mechanism.
7) Deployment - This folder has the streamlit file to showcase the web interface of the working model.








